from the Library of Congress in
Washington DC
my name is Lulu Garcia Navarro I'm a
host at National Public Radio it is my
pleasure to be here today and I have a
few words from the National Book
Festival that I have been asked to read
all day here at the Library of Congress
National Book Festival we are
recognizing and celebrating the
importance of reading authors and books
the Library of Congress makes it seem
easy to do this every year but in truth
the National Book Festival is a huge
undertaking and I feel very comfortable
doing this because I am from NPR we're
gonna now ask you for some money this
room has been made possible by the
generous support of our sponsors the
James Madison Council so please consider
making a contribution right now on your
cell phone you can send a text to make a
one-time gift that will be added to your
mobile phone bill we should think about
that at NPR in fact note to self
the details are on the screen and on the
back of your program please contribute
obviously books and these kinds of
events are expensive undertakings so
thank you for considering making a
donation right now and on with our
program it is my absolute pleasure and
honor to introduce you today an author
who has done I think so much for our
understanding of Medicine and science
and all that goes into it
he wrote the book the Emperor of all
maladies which was considered one of the
most notable books when it came out
by the New York Times and so many others
he is a cancer doctor practicing he is
also a scientist and researcher at
Columbia University and he has now
written the book the gene an intimate
history which is an astonishing work I
can attest having just finished it so I
would like you to give a very warm
welcome right now to dr. Siddhartha
Mukherjee
[Music]
I'd like to start by saying and I did
say this to him before I came that I'm
neither a scientist nor a doctor I don't
come with any particular knowledge of
the medical profession I am actually a
storyteller and what was astonishing to
me about this book is the stories about
the people who have made this made these
incredible discoveries and continue to
make these incredible discoveries but I
wanted to start with you and why you
chose to write this book now you started
with a book about sort of illness and
this is about the very essence of life
so the the genesis of this book is a
little bit complicated really the three
things that came together in in in this
book when I finished emperor of all
maladies I thought I was done
there's the the English who can
specialize in slightly comments
reviewers wrote there was a review of
emperor of all maladies and I like that
book won the Guardian first book prize
and someone wrote the one of the
reviewers wrote it should have been
awarded the Guardian only book prize
because that was my book and I was done
with it but then three things happened
and those three things are relevant
number one is that the question of
cancer which was what I was studying in
the laboratory the question of cancer
demands the question of normalcy if
cancer is the altered self what is the
self how do we how do we become
ourselves how do we developed the
normalcy anatomically physiologically
and where did whether the boundaries of
the definition lie we'll come to the
will come to how astonishingly
contemporary this question has become as
of the last few weeks but nonetheless so
there was that question so it was
inspired by by
the work that I've done for my book on
cancer in fact when Ken Burns did the
Emperor of all maladies the question
that we kept coming back to in the sort
of editing room while we were conversing
and trying to make that film was it was
you know what what is normalcy how do we
know how do our body is know to become
what they become so this question was in
my mind a lot the second strand was
something was going on in the world of
science and technology that is that we
had begun to read and write human genes
human genetics in a way that was truly
unprecedented and by really but as I
mean the deciphering of the human genome
reading it attributing meaning to it and
of course technologies such as CRISPR
which began to allow us to make directed
interventions into the human genome
change our genomes sort of at will the
gene editing the gene editing technology
we'll talk about all of that yes but
these techniques you know you since this
book has come out of course we have been
very widely now dispersed but these from
this from the vantage point of science
sitting in the laboratory who you could
already sense bubbling zuv this CRISPR
was in our news
long before course it was in very public
news in in the gene I've made the
prediction that we would see the birth
of genetically altered human embryos ten
years from this book in fact it was less
than ten months from this book that
actually that it actually occurred so so
there was that so in other words that
there was a kind of gas chamber gas
pressure off of technology that was
pushing like a piston against our
understanding of what who we were what
what what what are we what are we like
how what happens when we change it so it
was that second arena second set of
concerns but the third probably the most
important was my father was was dying
while I was writing this book and I was
having conversations with him about our
on family history of mental illness of
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder in
particular and those conversations went
from very abstract conversations you
know there was the story of my my
brother my nephew my cousin his brother
his nephew but then those became very
personal questions would would I want to
scan my own genes to unveil potential
risks for mental illness what would that
mean how would that change the way you I
imagine how the way to change it way
let's say you had some illness some with
a small genetic component or maybe a
large genetic component tracking through
your family and all of a sudden the
capacity to decipher that prospectively
became available would you do it what
would that mean for us
broadly speaking so these three strand
just to remind ourselves again number
one kind of left over question from the
emperor of all maladies about cancer
number two the bubbling of completely
new Sciences science and technological
out really scientific and technological
breakthroughs that allowed us to
intervene and understand our genes in a
way that hadn't happened before number
three a very personal history of mental
illness sort of came together in in this
book that's how this book was born I
want to get to the last two specifically
of what you of what you've just
mentioned but first one of the things
that's really wonderful about this book
is that you delve into the history and
and I think that it is so important to
understand where we are now to look back
at what has happened before and in
particular as we were just talking
before we got to the stage we were
talking about the history of eugenics in
America and there are so many cautionary
tales here let's talk about a little bit
about what eugenics was and and that
history so
the history comes in in three or four
phases and it's important to recognize
these phases because each one is a step
towards something the word eugenics the
idea of eugenics of course is an ancient
idea Plato writes about it the idea that
you can somehow make better human beings
by intervening on heredity through
marriage or through whatever other means
is an ancient idea it's a kind of it's
an idea that comes up over and over
again but the word really is coined by
Francis Galton he was as many of you
know cousin of Darwin's a philosopher a
scientist a mathematician a statistician
and when Goldin thought about the idea
it was quite widely embraced by the
intellectual elite of Great Britain this
was thought to be a progressive idea
this was thought to be an idea that you
know somehow if you did better breeding
you would get improvements in human race
and it was projected as a way to make us
better faster grasping the whole the
horns of of selection and and thereby
improving the human race it was
considered it and many many progressives
in in Great Britain signed on to it
there were big conference is held in
fancy locations like like this one in
you know where the idea was trotted out
where proudly as a machinist authors by
famous well exactly there's a whole list
of people doctors Auster wells ate you
up he was just one of many
they were dissenting voices - we'll come
back to that in in in a second
Chesterton very famously a descendent
dissent dissenting voice but nonetheless
that's the first phase positive
selection positive breeding breeding as
eugenics then it moves to the United
States
it's an awful it's it's interesting that
that that the United States phase of
eugenics is off
neglected but this was a nice to me yeah
it's the adolescence of eugenics occurs
right here it it moves to society very
obsessed with with a technological and
and Paul you know a kind of
re-engineering of social of social
structures and and so it's in the United
States before not seed germinates in the
United States that that provide the kind
of fertile soil for the second phase of
eugenics and here the emphasis moves
from just breathing to sterilization and
it is here that the idea of sterilizing
those that are people that are
considered eugenic ly unfit is really
born and brought into legal into into
the legal system so it changes from
trying to make a better human to getting
rid of humans that are not good that's
right I'm rid of humans through
sterilization so the human beings that
are being eliminated in the in in this
second obviously obviously more
compromised phase of eugenics is through
sterilization and the Nazis pick up this
idea as genetics itself moves on and
it's and and they then convert this into
extermination so it moves from positive
breeding to sterilization to
extermination exterminate the people who
are unfit but it's it's it's it's
impossible to it is very convenient in
the United States to ignore this second
phase but it's impossible to ignore it
not far from here there were
institutions state institutions
sponsored by the state paid for by the
state where the sterilized weren't being
sterilized where the the unfit were
being sterilized the book is dedicated
to Carrie buck as a reminder of that
moment
remind us briefly what Carrie buck was
Carrie buck was one of the first victims
of this sterilization effort she
a woman who was deemed to be mentally
unfit
she was deemed to be an imbecile based
on what we know about the historical
record it's very unlikely that she was
anything of this she was nonetheless she
was brought to the Virginia State Colony
and at first she was confined as a
mechanism of preventing her from having
any children and later the
superintendent of the colony applied to
the courts first to the colony board and
then subsequently the case climbed to
the courts to ask her to ask that she be
involuntarily sterilized her ovaries
removed so that she would not have
anymore
imbecille children this case climbed all
the way to the to the higher courts and
ultimately resulted in in the chilling
observation made by Oliver Wendell
Holmes that three generations of
imbeciles was enough and with that
judgment Carrie buck was involuntarily
sterilized in Virginia becoming one of
the first women to be sterilized under
this under this under the umbrella of
eugenics why what is important about
this story in the context of the book
and taking us to today what is it that
we need to learn from that
what's the back of the strange backstory
about this and I and I was just we were
just talking about it in the in the back
I had not excited I'd expect this
expected this book to be scientifically
and personally contemporary I have
thought that I would write about
questions like what if you were
presented with the prospect of
sequencing your genome and determining
the genetic propensities of your child
would you do it what if there was mental
illness I had not explore I had not
expected was how politically clamorous
how how this book would intersect with
the political clamor of our times it was
it was just
totally unexpected you know the question
of supremacy
what is supremacy mean question of race
how much do we know about race based on
what we know from genes and science the
the the the confusion and clamor created
around questions of what is inherent and
what's not what is intrinsic what's not
intrinsic the IQ words you know none of
this I had as I said I had the book the
book was called an intimate history I
didn't call it the gene a political
history which may have basically should
have but I just had not expected the way
that this would intersect the book would
intersect with very glamorous and and I
would say rather important debates about
about what's going on today you wanted
to I liked you this point to read a
section of your book that I think speaks
to this yeah you know the funny story is
that I suppose now I could sadly pick up
any section of the book and make it
relevant and if a good book the I
thought I'd read this section on race so
somewhere here let's strike somewhere
here and this is about the migration a
human migration from here they went west
and north as young men often do and then
traveled through the gash of the Rift
Valley or ducked into the canopies of
the rain forests around the Congo Basin
where the Bantu and the mabu T now live
the story is not geographically
contained or as neat as it sounds some
populations of early modern humans are
known to have wandered back into the
Sahara a lush landscape then crisscross
with finger lakes and rivers and then
eddie'd back into local pools of
humanoids coexisted and even interbred
with them perhaps generating evolution
backcrosses as Christopher stringer the
paleoanthropology described it in terms
of modern humans this meant that some
modern humans have more archaic genes
than others that does seem to be so
leading us to ask again what is modern
human but the long march went on some
75,000 years ago a group of humans
arrived at the northeast edge of
Ethiopia Egypt where the Red Sea narrows
into a slit like Strait between the
shrugged shoulder Africa and the
downward elbow of the a many Peninsula
there was no one to park the ocean we
don't know what drove the men and women
to fling themselves across the water how
they managed to cross it the sea was
perhaps shallower then and some
geologists have wondered whether the
chain of where the change of sandbar
Islands spanned the strait along which
our ancestors hopscotch their way to
Asia and Europe this goes on for a while
but then it comes to a question which
gets the meat of things what does this
tell us about race and genes a great
deal first it reminds us that the racial
categorization of humans is an
inherently limited proposition Wallace
Sarah the political scientists like to
quip that academic disputes are often
the most vicious because the stakes are
so overwhelmingly low by similar logic
perhaps our increasingly shrewd abates
on race should begin with the
recognition that the actual range of
human genomic variation is strikingly
low lower than in many other species
lower for instance than in chimpanzees
given our rather brief tenure on earth
as a species were much more alike than
unlike each other it is an inevitable
consequence of the bloom of our youth
that we haven't even had time to taste
the poisoned Apple yet even a young
species possesses history one of the
most penetrating powers of genetics is
its ability to organize even closely
related genomes into classes and
subclasses if we go hunting for
discriminatory Figg features and
clusters then we will indeed find
features and clusters to discriminate
examined carefully the variations in the
human genome will
cluster importantly along geographic
regions and continents and along
traditional boundaries every genome
there's the mark of its ancestries by
studying the genetic characteristics of
an individual you can pinpoint his or
her origin to a certain continent
nationality state or even tribe with
relatively remarkable accuracy it is to
be sure an apathy osis of small
differences but if this is what we mean
by race then the concept has not
survived the gene genomic era it has
been amplified by it but the central
problem with racial discrimination is
not the inference of a person's race
from the genetic characteristics it's
the most important point that's raised
in this chapter it is quite the opposite
it is the inference of a person's
characteristics from their race this is
a central confusion that runs through
some of these sort of clamors debates
the question is not can you given an
individual skin color hair texture
language infer something about their
ancestry or origin that is a question or
biological systematics of lineage of
taxonomy of racial geography of
biological discrimination of course you
can and the gene and the genome has
vastly refined that inference you can
scan any individual genome and infer
rather deep insights about a person's
ancestry or place of origin but the
vastly more controversial question is
precisely the converse given a racial
identity African or Asian say those are
in inverted coats can you infer anything
about an individual's characteristic not
just the skin or care color but complex
features such as intelligence habits
personality and aptitude in other words
genes can tell us about racial origin
but can race tell us anything about
genes to answer that question we need to
measure how genetic variation is
distributed across racial categories is
there more diversity within races or
between races there's knowing that
someone is of African versus European
descent say allow us to refine our
understanding of their genetic traits or
their personal physical or intellectual
attributes in a meaningful manner we
know precise and quantitative answers to
these questions
a number of studies have tried to
quantify the level of genetic diversity
of the human genome the most recent
estimates suggest that the vast
proportion of genetic diversity up to 85
to 90 percent occurs within so-called
races that is within the Asians or
Africans and only a minor proportion
about seven percent between racial
groups so these are the questions still
of our day which is what is so striking
so so what is what is when you read that
what is the what is the conclusion that
you that you draw the conclusion that we
draw is that genomics should have
stuffed the genie of racial
discrimination back into its bottle the
fact that it hasn't is is really a
commentary about our our society's new
desire to discriminate and a new desire
to categorise along racial boundaries
these are Victorian ideas that we
inherited the fact that that you know it
leaves a Victorian ideas that we
inherited sub classifying human beings
into these categories genomics has
belied this Victorian idea that be the
difference between a man from Namibia
and a man from Ethiopia is greater
genetically than the difference between
a man from Ethiopia and a man from Yemen
we know this because of the nature of
migration and yet Victorian
classifications would put the first two
in the same category and the man from
Yemen in in a different category that's
just false it makes no sense the fact
that we hang on to these ideas the fact
that we keep with these categories is a
reminder not of genetics but of a
certain biological a certain desire
whether biological or not cultural or
biological or not where desire to
categorize people along boundaries which
we sadly inherit from times before
science what is striking to me while
reading this book and in just and is
that these reoccur but science is often
used by scientists to make these distant
there are there are people who use the
science to further these erroneous ideas
absolutely I mean this I mean one of the
purposes of what this book and and the
Emperor of all maladies is is to remind
us that this you know science is not a
hallowed activity human beings within
the sciences within medicine are just as
guilty or of the same desires to
categorize to discriminate it's just it
but it's but it's also reminder that
there is that there there there are
truths science is not fake news and if
there is reminding and and the confusion
caused by the confusion caused in the
clamor of our times is is is a
smokescreen thrown up onto that idea but
if you look deeply if if we are if
you're able to lift the if you're able
to lift the smokescreen the the the
truth is I believe in truth I'm going to
I'm going to actually follow you down
this road because I'm I'm I'm interested
in it what is the role of a book like
this and and your coming out and
speaking in a moment when science is
questioned all the time I'm gonna put
you on the spot there because I'm a
journalist well look the as I said to
you before when I started writing this
book it was very there self-consciously
called into in history
I wanted this book to be about my family
and exploration and wanted to try to
understand what it feels like to be in
this moment in time what it feels like
when you can you know if you think about
your genome as a massive encyclopedia
actually that encyclopedia would one
genome within an ACTG would cover every
wall of this room one human beings
genome 3 billion
we are now learning to read or ascribe
meaning to that encyclopedia but what
was more astonishing to me is that we
could now we had invented technologies
that would allow you to go to you know
volume 16 page 347 erased the word CG
and make the word AG instead that's the
kind of technology I'm leaving the rest
of the encyclopedia untouched I wanted
to talk about all of this and talk about
the ethical implications all of this but
the but as I said to you a I had not
expected the intersections the political
intersections that that occurred I just
hope people read read the book you know
what else when I say hmm um we're gonna
take some questions shortly but I just
want to ask you about CRISPR because I
being the deep investigative journalist
that I am I did a Google search before I
came here and I did it actually looking
for headlines not not not because I not
because I wanted to all of a sudden give
you a dissertation on CRISPR but briefly
its gene editing technology it's been in
the news and I did a Google search these
are the two headlines that I came across
could gene editing tools such as CRISPR
be used as a biological weapon question
mark all in caps and then the other one
was two-thirds of Americans approve of
editing human DNA to treat disease
mm-hmm
these seem to be at odds with each other
these two headlines and it and it to me
spoke to the very real concerns at the
moment and and and and the hopes that
people have about what this technology
could do for us so the answer is both of
those are are true so could CRISPR
technologies be used to create
biological weapons sewer I mean anytime
you manipulate the genomes of organisms
you can manipulate the genomes of
organisms and make them loaded with
toxins or capable of of introducing new
disease into human populations so the
answer is absolutely this is one of it
just to remind us Chris Perez belongs to
a suite of technologies that allow us to
intervene on the genomes of organism
and absolutely when you intervene on the
genomes of organisms you have the
capacity to change the organism and make
it more pathogenic and sure that you
could make a biological weapon out of it
the second question are also important
we don't this is why we need to have
this conversation now we have as I told
you before if you imagine an
individual's genome 3 or 3 billion or
letters of it as an encyclopedia lining
every wall of this auditorium these
technologies now allow us to as I said
pick up page 346 on in volume 17 and
alter one letter to two letters in that
not everything is is is that accurate
but nonetheless close to that but it's
importantly we'd have no we're we're
struggling to find what the ethical
realm and the boundaries would be for
this kind of experimentation I'm just
gonna finish by saying before we go into
questions I would finish by saying that
there are three the book recognized when
my book recommends three potential
boundaries and they're important one if
we could think of them as a triangle one
I do the triangle is that obviously we
would like to intervene genetically on
diseases that cause extraordinary
suffering that should be a bright line
number two the second line of the
boundary is that the that the link
between what we're trying to change and
the disease should be relatively tight
in other words there are many illnesses
many human illnesses that are not linked
just one gene but have multiple genetic
links genes plus environmental links but
we have to establish that when we
intervene on the genes that that we're
very confident that the link between the
gene and the disease is tight and the
third one going back to the political
history of eugenics in there and the
human history of eugenics is to remind
ourselves that this should only occur
with consent and it should be
justifiable we should be able to justify
it in terms of the the individual whose
genomes are being intervened upon and
they should have freedom and consent so
these are these are sort of three
triangles
you can imagine every angle of these
three triangles is its own ethical
debate what is extraordinary suffering
is it extraordinary you know who defines
it are you to define and am I to define
it what is the tightness how tight do we
want this link to be what does freedom
mean you know if we create a course of
society do we do be tacitly violate the
the you know the capacity of individuals
to give consent so of course these three
are complicated realms in this triangle
but at least them defines some
boundaries and that's what I recommend
who would like to ask some questions and
while people are come up to the
microphones and when people are coming
up
I thought of this when you in your first
answer and I did want to ask you before
we go into questions which is did you
scan your jeans I did not now you know
we have I work I run a laboratory we do
genetic sequencing day in and day out it
would take me no more than then drawing
a pinprick of my own blood or spitting
into a little tube to do it I decided
not to yes sir hi thank you for coming
he's very interesting I loved your book
thank you I was involved in the
sociobiology debates back in the 70s
uh-huh and I think one of the problems I
have is that on the one hand we want to
think of science as being objective and
looking at the truth but we also have to
recognize that science is an inherently
political activity in terms of what
science get asked what science gets
funded how its interpreted how the
results are used so I think we have a
dilemma really between the you know what
we want to think science to is and how
and but we have to at least recognize
the fact that science isn't inherently
political so I have known you you know
and to be honest both both my books
address the question of science as a
human and political activity I have no
doubt whatsoever that this will continue
way into the future the the way we
interpret data is ultimately is
ultimately altered we see it through the
lenses of of culture that said I don't
believe that the that it's a
free-for-all
I I do believe in truth I don't think
that I think the interpretations of data
are constantly changing but we're
becoming richer and and and more
knowledgeable about what illness means
what what genetics means what genes tell
us about ourselves our history etc etc I
don't think that it's I think absolutely
we will continue to struggle with with
with the the truth value of science and
our capacity reinterpreted to understand
it and this is an old struggle and we're
trying you know we will continue to
engage with this through human history I
don't think that's going to change in
the near future thank you thank you
first off I love what you're doing I
love your research um I was wondering
and you said when you wrote your book
you predicted in the next 10 years that
we would see um that the human genome
being edited and but it was actually ten
months what we're the next developments
you see in your field well the next the
next major milestone the next small
milestone will be the arrival of
multiple not just one crisper and
crisper edited organisms and they will
climb higher and higher into the they'll
climb higher and higher into the
complexities of organisms so I suspect
in the next few odd months we will see
CRISPR editing monkeys and months I
would say yeah it would not surprise me
certainly CRISPR edited animals of
various sorts genetically modified in
whatever way and then we will come to
some kind of meanwhile the human embryos
of course the currently no such human
embryo has ever been reincarnated
brought to turn we have no idea this in
fact a big debate going on that's
correct in the United States so I would
say it's ill it's illegal up to beyond a
certain place it becomes illegal but not
so in many other countries so so I think
when the next 20 odd months these
embryonic experiments the human embryo
experiments will continue to progress
until we're brought to that precipice
and then we have to make a big decision
whether to allow or not allow the first
genetic changes in human beings directed
deliberately by human beings should they
be introduced into human embryos or not
I think that recipes is probably coming
in 20 months 20 24 months yes I just
that's it it is a big deal I just wanted
to express my gratitude because a couple
of years ago I had breast cancer and
each day that I had chemotherapy I would
come home and I would watch the Emperor
of all maladies thank you and I'm not a
scientist I'm a librarian and archivist
so watching the history unfold allowed
for context that I just simply didn't
have and so as I was dealing with this
personally I was able to see what had
gone on before me and what was going on
and you know for future people well
thanks back to you because you're an
archivist it allowed the book to happen
[Music]
so two things thank you for how well
written the book was I'm a history major
I'm not a science major and I think that
you are the first scientist I actually
listened to it wasn't a professor the
reason I picked up the book so the thing
on my first point is that I struggle
with my mother has bipolar my brother
was categorized as ADHD and severely
medicated in the eighties and it has led
him to amplified versions of bipolar
syndromes such as gotten him very much
level so it's something I struggle with
being the youngest child is when will
this come about for me so I really
appreciate your book in how it broke
down how really gave me an understanding
of the history but what I found shocking
to myself and I guess my crush
to you is were you prepared for from
Plato and Aristotle to Mendel and peas
to Kelly buck Carrie buck sorry
were you prepared for the female role in
how this gene history has been laid out
it's so prevalent in one generation to
the next is it amazes me that we have
you know Lady Justice and Lady Liberty
but the female seems to be blamed for a
lot of the discrepancies in the gene I
will I will add that I noted that myself
well you know as I as I wrote the book I
personally became more aware you know I
I taught myself relatively well worth
well versed in in American history I'd
never heard of Carrie buck I had to go
back and try to understand what it was
like to be labeled an imbecile in 1910
1920 I had not understood the the role
that that was subscribed to heredity and
how much of it was how much of it was
miss ascribed because of a whole set of
political reasons some of them have to
having to do with our our intersection
with gender so it was that it was that
there was an awakening for me as well
and I'm intrigued by the fact that you
picked it up in the book yes no it was
for me it's also a bit of history that I
didn't know and secondly it it struck a
chord with me as well that the the
frequently women minorities are often
the targets of scientific experiments in
fact the eugenics project continued in
the United States on African Americans
way into the 1950s and 60s long
extending beyond the what's known about
it
yes I'm from Mumbai on holiday here and
I'm a big fan I hit the jackpot today
when I checked up the events and I saw
you was so my question is on longevity
how soon before we have humans living
for 200 years or so apparently so I'm
killing myself well the the the
longevity demands a long answer so but
I'll try to be one five minute there's
three ways that I think about longevity
I'll go from the least provocative to
the most provocative the least
provocative is removing its it's a
double negative killing all the killers
removing the property removing the
diseases the illnesses that trace place
natural restrictions on human age cancer
heart disease and neurological illnesses
would be the highest on that list
so the as we eliminate them of course
human lifespans are we'll talk to will
increase that's that's that's vision one
vision two is more complicated vision
two is not a negative vision but a
positive vision can we are there genes
that we can or pathways or things that
we can intervene on that allow us to
increase longevity in a process in a way
not by killing the killers but by
increasing the human body's capacity to
live longer and in fact there are there
are metabolic pathways their genes we're
discovering more and more of them in
lower other animals and extending those
data into human beings
the third one I'll leave you as a
thought experiment I'm writing a little
bit about it the third want to leave is
a thought experiment
another possibility is to clone yourself
and to then implant through some kind of
deep learning techniques your voice some
of your memories including memories of
your trauma etc to this genetic clone of
yourself we are edging we won't come
there but we're edging towards
technologies that allow us to achieve
these technologically
I just posed this as a thought
experiment what if I would allow I would
if I would think about creating a clone
of a self genetically identical and then
passing on some of these memories
traumas histories to that clone with
that is that longevity I don't know but
think of that as a mind-bending
experiment first that's a happy thought
to leave everyone with we have two
minutes left I I just want to come back
to the ethical implications of all the
things that you've just said very
briefly have has the technology
surpassed our ability to regulate it to
to actually make sure that some of these
things that we've only seen in movies
come to pass I think the the feeling
across the the scientific community is
that there's the it's getting time to
hit the pause button for a little bit
because the and it's getting time this
is as I said this this is not trivial
stuff this is intervention on the human
genome editing the human genome
deliberately it's a conversation that
people in laboratories with white coats
cannot have in and of themselves within
themselves
it's your Gina we have all of this in
custody
across all human beings so you have to
be able to have this conversation as
what widely and broadly as possible and
therefore you need you me we all need to
know the vocabulary we need to
understand the technologies that what's
fantasy what's not fantasy what's
possible what's possible where the lines
are what what nations draw what lines
what we have allowed what others have
allowed what we're doing etcetera
etcetera and this has to be a an
international conversation so I think in
the scientific community there is
everyday increasing cognizance that we
sort of need to hit the pause button for
a little bit before moving on and I
think within again within the next 10 on
months we will begin to see I know many
of them already because they're in draft
form we will begin to see very public
acknowledgments that we need to have
stronger boundaries international
boundaries we can't do something if
China is doing something else
do something of India is gonna have
different rules how to negotiate those
boundaries based on ethical precepts the
conception of what what in it you know
what what life or the life of an embryo
is is different between cultures so we
have to respect and understand that but
at the same time because it's the human
genome that we're talking about this has
to be a conversation that all of us need
to have together
thank you very much rather the this
has been a presentation of the Library
of Congress
visit us at loc.gov